Aws new org examples (#434)
killbill/killbill-docs: userguide/aws/how-tos/add-a-certificate.adoc

= How To Add a Certificate

> == Overview

Reviewer: I think we can get rid of the explanatory information about what HTTPS is. For someone like me, it was informative, but for the reader we are targeting, they should already be aware of this information. The only information I would keep would be the (edited) second paragraph.

Reviewer: Also, see the Quick Start with Kaui guide (new) with the high-level steps in the beginning.

Author: OK but maybe the brief summary of HTTPS should go in a (Divio style) explanation document? It seems that those may be useful for the reader who wants more information, while others can skip them.

Reviewer: Since you have already written the material, you could break it out into an explanation document and link to the explanation document from this how-to document.

Author: Ok that has been done.

The HTTP protocol, commonly used for message exchange over the internet, does not provide encryption or authentication. As a result messages exchanged with this protocol may be insecure and subject to eavesdropping, and their source may be uncertain. To avoid this problem, HTTP is frequently combined with an encryption scheme known as SSL, or more recently TLS, that can be used to keep messages safe from unauthorized access, and verify that the sender is who they claim to be. This secure protocol is called HTTPS.

> This document provides information about HTTPS and its setup that applies to all of the AWS Kill Bill architectures: single-tier, multi-tier, and cloud formation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to set up HTTPS, which applies to all of the AWS Kill Bill architectures: single-tier, multi-tier, and cloud formation.
```

Author: OK that can be chanhged

Author: Done

For temporary use, you can sometimes create a *self-signed* certificate, in which you are your own CA. Most browsers will frown on this, since you are simply vouching for yourself, but it may allow you to get started with security. We will not consider this option in this document.

If you own a domain, your domain provider can serve as your CA. If you don't have a domain, you can purchase one for very low cost from a domain provider such as Godaddy. When you obtain a domain you need to prove your identity, so your domain provider can trust you. To demonstrate this trust you will need a CNAME.

== Preliminary concepts

=== CNAMEs

> 

Reviewer: For the information in this section, I would remove anything the reader should already know about and link out to any information that is generally available on the web, such as what a CNAME is. Any information directly pertinent to the steps below can be moved from here and put at the beginning of the section, sort of like a mini-overview. I know we're not supposed to provide excessive explanations in Tutorials, but a few sentences are sometimes needed to orient the reader or explain (briefly) why the steps are necessary.

Author: Based on the Divio examples (more so than their descriptions) I am trying to include the minimum explanation that seems necessary in how-tos (which this is) moreso than tutorials. @FlowWriter you would know better than me what the intended audience knows. I had some trouble understanding CNAMES but maybe they won't. But should this information go in a (Divio style) explanation document?

Reviewer: As mentioned above, since you already wrote this, it won't hurt to create it as a separate explanation document. But if this type of information is easily available on the internet, you could just link to an authoritative source that explains these principles. For example, does AWS have a glossary or explanation of contents? No sense in recreating the wheel if it's not necessary.

Author: I added a short discussion of CNAMEs to the explanation doc. This may be understood by many, but I think it still can be confusing and we should discuss it as it is specifically used in AWS.

The CNAME is part of your domain's DNS profile, and your domain provider should have instructions for setting it up. These instructions should ask you to enter two strings called `Name` and `Value`. These strings will be obtained during the certificate generation process.

=== Protocol and Port Setup

Your AWS security group by default provides rules giving access to Kaui and Kill Bill using the HTTP protocol and a specified port number. For HTTPS you will need additional rules with the new protocol and a new port number.

=== Validation

When you create a new certificate you will need to validate your certificate. This identifies the trust hierarchy for the certificate. You may need to setup a temporary CNAME for this purpose, and you may need to provide temporary access via an extra port in your security group.

== Obtaining a Certificate

> 

Reviewer: Add this from Overview: "HTTPS is based on the use of a verification document called a *certificate*. the certificate serves two purposes:

1. It provides the keys necessary for a highly secure encryption.
2. It provides the electronic signature of a *certificate authority (CA)* who guarantees the identity of the sender."

There are many ways to obtain a certificate that you can use to protect a particular resource. Here we will describe two that may be of use in particular Kill Bill scenarios running on AWS. These are:

1. Using the AWS Certificate Manager
2. Using the free CA *Let's Encrypt*

== Using the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)

The AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) offers a straightforward way to provide SSL/TLS protection for AWS resources such as load balancers. This is recommended when using the multi-tier or cloud formation installation options. There is no extra cost for using ACM certificates. 

> === 1. Request a Certificate

Author: I think there are still questions to be thought about as to the best sequence and numbering of some of these sections.

> === 1. Request a Certificate

Reviewer: In the interest of finishing this document, let's set aside this topic for now.

> If you are on a page that is asking for your certificate, click on *Request a new Certificate from ACM*. Otherwise, select ACM from the Services menu. You will be taken to the main page of the ACM. Initially this will probably show that you have no certificates. Click *Request a Certificate*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you are on a page that is asking for your certificate, click on *Request a new Certificate from ACM*. Otherwise, select ACM from the Services menu. 
+
You will be taken to the main page of the ACM. Initially this will probably show that you have no certificates. 
+
. Click *Request a Certificate*.
```
The plus sign (+) aligns the non-numbered paragraph under the numbered paragraph.

Author: This section has been rewritten.

Reviewer: @jdmooney - Please bold face "ACM" and "Services" in the sentence that begins, "Otherwise, select..."

> If you are on a page that is asking for your certificate, click on *Request a new Certificate from ACM*. Otherwise, select ACM from the Services menu. You will be taken to the main page of the ACM. Initially this will probably show that you have no certificates. Click *Request a Certificate*.

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we need a screenshot here that shows a user the first page? Or maybe a URL that they need to enter into a browser to get started? I do not have enough context so I may be wrong but just suggesting it anyway.

Author: My current thinking is that a screenshot is not necessary here. But I can reconsider.

Reviewer: @jdmooney - I agree with Reshma that a screenshot would be good here.

> The next page will give you the option to import a certificate, or to request a public or private certificate. Choose *private*, then click again on *Request a Certificate*. This will take you to the *Request a Certificate* page. You are initially at *Step 1: Add Domain Names*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
The next page will give you the option to import a certificate, or to request a public or private certificate. 
+
. Choose *private*, then click again on *Request a Certificate*. This will take you to the *Request a Certificate* page. You are initially at *Step 1: Add Domain Names*.
```

Author: This section needed substantial rewriting because the AWS pages have changed, and because I was wrong at first about making the certificate private -- I *think* now it has to be public. Please check the revised version.

Reviewer: @jdmooney - I found myself wanting to see more screenshots in this section, especially in the beginning. For example, when it says, "Enter your domain name...", I am not sure where to enter it. 

I know these AWS screens will likely change, but I think it's better to do a lot of handholding here. We can always revise/revisit later.

Reviewer: I see now where to enter the domain name. Something like "Enter the domain name in the **Fully Qualified Domain Name** field (shown above)."

image::https://github.com/killbill/killbill-docs/raw/v3/userguide/assets/aws/ELB-cert-validation-2.png[align=center]

The two strings labeled `Name` and `Value` should be copied to the two required entries for your CNAME. Copy these long strings carefully. Do not include any trailing periods. There is an option to save these strings in a file so they may be copied more easily, or stored for a later time.

Your second CNAME is much simpler. The `Name` entry will be `kaui`. The `Value` entry will be simply your domain name, e.g., `mydomain.com`.

=== 3. Create and Validate your Certificate

When your CNAMEs are set, return to ACM and click *Continue*. The display changes to show that your certificate is *Pending Validation*. The certificate should now appear also on the main ACM page. When (and if) it is validated, the status will change to *Success*. *This may take several hours or more.* A short time later it will change again to *Issued*.

When your certificate is successfully created, you may delete the temporary (validation) CNAME from your DNS Profile.

== Using Let's Encrypt (with Certbot)

> `Let's Encrypt` is a root CA that is free to use. Certificates based on `Let's Encrypt` can be created using the application `certbot`. This approach is useful when using a third-party load balancer like `nginx`, which cannot be protected with ACM certificates. This is the load balancer used with the single-tier Kill Bill option.`Let's Encrypt` can be used free of charge.

Reviewer 2: Adding a link to Let's Encrypt (https://letsencrypt.org/ - if this is the correct link) might help.

Author: Done

`Certbot` is pre-installed in the latest Kill Bill AMI, but if you need a different version of `certbot`, this is also available through the new package manager `snap`. This package manager is also preinstalled in the Kill Bill AMI.

To setup a certificate using `certbot`, perform the following steps. This discussion assumes you are using `nginx`:

=== 1. Create a CNAME

Create a CNAME, following instructions from your domain provider. You will be asked to provide two items of information. The first is simply `kaui`. The second is the *Public IPV4 DNS* name for your EC2 instance, for example, `ec2-3-238-230-120.compute-1.amazonaws.com`. Note that the IPV4 address alone will *not* work.

=== 2. Add your CNAME to the `nginx` configuration file

This step tells `nginx` to forward HTTPS traffic via your CNAME.
        
First, login to your EC2 instance.

Next, using a text editor of your choosing, edit the file `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/killbill.conf`. You will need to use `sudo` to edit this file.

This file contains two server blocks. The second block contains the lines:

> 

Reviewer 2: I would suggest adding steps here (`2.1`, `2.2`...).

Reviewer: I don't think Asciidoc supports X.x numbering. Using the regular numbering is fine, I think.

> ```

Author: Is there a problem here that should be fixed?

> ```

Reviewer: @jdmooney - If you click on the "Show more details," you'll get information about the syntax problem. Instead of using ``` for code, the Asciidoctor syntax uses `[source]`. There's more information [here](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/verbatim/source-blocks/).

server {
    listen 443;
    server_name _;
```
Replace the underscore after `server_name` with your CNAME:

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above

server {
    listen 443;
    server_name kaui.mydomain.com;
```

Save the modified file, then reload it with the following command:

`sudo nginx -s reload`

=== 3. Enable HTTP on port 80 (temporarily)

Go to your EC2 dashboard and add a new inbound rule to your security group as follows: Type: HTTP, Protocol: TCP, Port Range: 80, Source: 0.0.0.0/0. Your inbound rules should now look like this:

image::https://github.com/killbill/killbill-docs/raw/v3/userguide/assets/aws/single-ami-inbound-port-80.png[align=center]

This is just to allow `certbot` to create your certificate. After the certificate is created, we recommend that you remove this rule to maintain security.

=== 4. Create and Install the Certificate

Run `certbot` using the following command:

`sudo certbot --nginx`

Respond to any questions that are asked. If all goes well, you will see a message like:

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above

==== 1. Request a Certificate

If you are setting up a new multi-tier or CloudFormation implementation, choose the HTTPS option for your load balancer. You will come to a page that asks for your certificate. click on *Request a new Certificate from ACM*. 

Otherwise, to add HTTPS security to an existing implementation, select *Security, Identity, and Compliance*, then *Certificate Manager* from the Services menu. In this case you will need to edit your load balancer(s) later on.

In either case you will be taken to the main page of the ACM. Initially this will probably show that you have no certificates. On the left menu, click *Request a Certificate*.

The next page will give you the option to request a public or private certificate. The private option may be grayed out. Click *Request a Public Certificate*. The page that appears will ask you to specify several parameters, including one or more domain names and a validation method.

image::https://github.com/killbill/killbill-docs/raw/v3/userguide/assets/aws/ELB-request-certificate.png[align=center]

> ==== 2. Setup a CNAME

Reviewer 2: Should this be changed to "Set up a validation CNAME"?

Author: Perhaps it should be "Set up CNAMEs". ACM requires both a validation CNAME and a regular CNAME. It seems best to create them both at the same time.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if Steps 1 and 2 should be interchanged. So, should step 1 be "Set up a CNAME" and Step 2 be "Request a Certificate"? The reason I'm suggesting this is Step 3 appears to be a continuation of Step 1 and the current  Step 2 appears a bit out of place after the current Step 1. I could be wrong.

Author: The "regular" CNAME can be setup first, but not the validation CNAME. This requires values that are only generated when the certificate request is being processed. Step 3 can only proceed when both Step 1 and Step 2 are done.

Reviewer: For image references, remember to use a relative path. See this conversation on Slack: https://killbillio.slack.com/archives/G01H4PZRTN1/p1666363095837249

To validate your certificate, you must first setup a *validation* CNAME. The values to use for the CNAME will be seen shortly.  You will then create the CNAME that you will actually use to access the system.

Enter your domain name, using the wildcard format (e.g., `*.mydomain.com`. In the second pane, select *DNS Validation*. Do not change the other settings. Scroll to the bottom of the page, and click *Request*. The main ACM page will again appear.

> 

Reviewer 2: Is a screenshot required here?

Author: This is now the same page that was seen earlier.

Reviewer 2: okay, it's difficult to visualize what the final pages would look like while reviewing here in Github. I would suggest merging this PR and doing another pass.

Author: I agree. Then we can add more screenshots if it seems necessary.

You should see a new certificate in progress with your (wildcard) domain name. It's status will be *Pending Validation*. Select the Certificate ID. The display will expand to show the values that you must use to create your validation CNAME.

image::https://github.com/killbill/killbill-docs/raw/v3/userguide/assets/aws/ELB-cert-validation.png[align=center]

The two strings labeled `Name` and `Value` should be copied to the two required entries for your CNAME. Copy these long strings carefully. Do not include any trailing periods.

Your second CNAME is much simpler. The `Name` entry will be `kaui`. The `Value` entry will be simply your domain name, e.g., `mydomain.com`.

==== 3. Create and Validate your Certificate

When your CNAMEs are set, return to ACM and click *Continue*. The display changes to show that your certificate is *Pending Validation*. The certificate should now appear also on the main ACM page. When (and if) it is validated, the status will change to *Success*. *This may take several hours or more.* A short time later it will change again to *Issued*.

> 

Reviewer 2: Again, wondering if a screenshot might help?

Author: Perhaps. These screens have already been seen, though, except the status value is different.

Reviewer 2: okay, it's difficult to visualize what the final pages would look like while reviewing here in Github. I would suggest merging this PR and doing another pass.

To setup a certificate using `certbot`, perform the following steps. This discussion assumes you are using `nginx`:

==== 1. Create a CNAME

Create a CNAME, following instructions from your domain provider. You will be asked to provide two strings, `Name` and `Value`. The `Name` string is simply `kaui`. The `Value` string is the *Public IPV4 DNS* name for your EC2 instance, for example, `ec2-3-238-230-120.compute-1.amazonaws.com`. Note that the IPV4 address alone will *not* work.

==== 2. Add your CNAME to the `nginx` configuration file

This step tells `nginx` to forward HTTPS traffic via your CNAME.
        
First, login to your EC2 instance.

Next, using a text editor of your choosing, edit the file `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/killbill.conf`. You will need to use `sudo` to edit this file.

This file contains two server blocks. The second block contains the lines:

```
server {
    listen 443;
    server_name _;
```
Replace the underscore after `server_name` with your CNAME:

```
server {
    listen 443;
    server_name kaui.mydomain.com;
```

Save the modified file, then reload it with the following command:

`sudo nginx -s reload`

==== 3. Enable HTTP on port 80 (temporarily)

> Go to your EC2 dashboard and add a new inbound rule to your security group as follows: Type: HTTP, Protocol: TCP, Port Range: 80, Source: 0.0.0.0/0. Your inbound rules should now look like this:

Reviewer 2: Suggesting the following for better readability:
```suggestion
Go to your EC2 dashboard and add a new inbound rule to your security group as follows: 
**Type: HTTP, Protocol: TCP, Port Range: 80, Source: 0.0.0.0/0.** 

Your inbound rules should now look like this:
```

Author: Done.

IMPORTANT NOTES:
 - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at:
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/deployment.killbill.io/fullchain.pem
   Your key file has been saved at:
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/deployment.killbill.io/privkey.pem
   Your cert will expire on 2021-07-11. To obtain a new or tweaked
   version of this certificate in the future, simply run certbot again
   with the "certonly" option. To non-interactively renew *all* of
   your certificates, run "certbot renew"
```

If the message does not appear, review the above steps carefully. If needed you can also try the https://certbot.eff.org/help/[certbot help page].

[[step2]]
== Step 2: Testing and Renewal

When your certificate is installed, you should be able to access Kaui from you browser using `https://` followed by your CNAME as the address. The browser should indicate that the site is secure.

When your certificate is successfully installed, you can edit your security groups again to remove the access through port 80.

The `Let's Encrypt` certifcates are only valid 90 days and will therefore neeed to be renewed. `certbot` will create a cron entry under `/etc/cron.d/certbot` to make this process automatic.

> The ACM certificates are good for approximately one year. Your certificate will renew automatically, provided that:

Author: I'm not sure what the issue is. But this section has been rewritten.
